MTM-60219 Exports component documentation (#2476)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/cockpit/working-with-exports.md

---
weight: 50
title: Working with exports
layout: bundle
outputs:
  - html
  - json
sector:

>   - app_enablement

Author: I'm not sure about a correct place where this docs should be added. 
Exports is a generic component, that can be integrated with data points data related widgets/views, that's why I have some doubts, but current place is quite fitting imho.
Any other ideas?

Reviewer: Should be fine, just add example and details in the codex

---

The **Export** feature allows you to save **Data points** information to external files. You can export data in formats such as:

- **CSV** (Comma-Separated Values)
- **Microsoft Excel** spreadsheets

> While **Export** is a standalone feature, it works in conjunction with other features that allow you to select **Data points**. For example, you can use Export with the [**Data points table**](/cockpit/widgets-collection/#data-point-table) widget, but first it must be **integrated** with such feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While **Export** is a standalone feature, it works in conjunction with other features that allow you to select **Data points**. For example, you can use **Export** with the [Data points table](/cockpit/widgets-collection/#data-point-table) widget, but first it must be integrated with such feature.
```

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS:

> - To generate exports: READ permission permission type "Measurement"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate exports: Measurement READ permission is required
```

Author: I wanted to by consistent with: https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/blob/develop/content/cockpit/working-with-reports.md?plain=1#L27, even if it doesn't sound correct...

Author: So, should I still change it as you suggest?

>   {{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}
```

Author: It's auto-formatting issue, it always adds extra space - at least with my linting settings.

### To create an export {#to-create-an-export}

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Note that in the example below, **Export** is integrated with the **Data points table** widget.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> 1. Click on the export button:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Export** button:
```

>    <br>![Add export](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-exports-button.png)<br>

Reviewer 2: @luja-c8y This screenshot is not really necessary. Please add the information where to find the button ("at the top right") to step 1.

Author: @MWindel The main goal was to show what this button will look like. The export component can be reused in other widgets or views, so I guess it won't always be in the same place.
Maybe just showing an icon would solve the problem, but I'm not sure...

> 2. You will see the following modal with export configuration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. You see the **Generate export** dialog window, which allows you to configure the export further. 
```

   <br>![Export configuration](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-exports-configuration.png)<br>

>    Here you can set:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   In this dialog window you can configure the following options:
```

>    - **Time range** - Select the time range for your export. By default, it's the same time range as configured in the widget's settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - **Time range**: Select the time range for your export. By default, it uses the same time range as configured in the widget's settings.
```

   - **Data scope**

>      - **Export mode** - Two options are available (see [**Differences between export modes**](#differences-between-export-modes) section below for details):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - **Export mode**: The following two options are available:
```

>        - Compact (selected by default)

Reviewer: I would explain what "Compact" and "Full" mean here, not in point 3. In my opinion, the explanation should be provided when you use a given word for the first time.

>        - Full

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       - Full
   Refer to [**Differences between export modes**](#differences-between-export-modes) for further details.
```

>      - **Aggregation** - Only available when **Compact** mode is selected. The default value is the same as in the widget's configuration. Four options are available:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - **Aggregation**: Only available when you select the **Compact** mode. The default value is the same as in the widget's configuration. The following four options are available:
```

       - None
       - Minutely
       - Hourly
       - Daily

>    - **File types** - Choose the file format for exporting data. **Microsoft Excel** is selected by default, with **CSV** as another option. You can select both types simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - **File types**: Select the file format for exporting data. **Microsoft Excel** is selected by default, with **CSV** as another option. You can select both types simultaneously.
```

> 3. Click the **Download** button. The result depends on your chosen export mode:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Download** button. Note that the download result depends on your chosen export mode:
```

>    - If you selected **Compact** mode, all data will be exported to one file and downloaded directly by your browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - If you selected the **Compact** mode, all data will be exported to one file and downloaded directly by your browser.
```

>    - If you selected **Full** mode, depending on the number of records to process, data will either be available in a single ZIP file (containing one file per **Data point**) or sent via email.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - If you selected the **Full** mode, depending on the number of records to process, data will either be available in a single ZIP file (containing one file per **Data point**) or sent via email.
```

>    - If you selected **Full** mode, depending on the number of records to process, data will either be available in a single ZIP file (containing one file per **Data point**) or sent via email.

Reviewer: Is this still valid? Didn't you mention that all datapoints will be in a single file?

Author: There are three options:
- all data in a single zip file containg one file per data point
- data that will be sent by email (50k+ records)
- not exportable data (1 mil+ records)
These options are mixable.

Also I updated a description:
```
depending on the number of records to be processed, the data will either be available in a single ZIP file (containing one file per **Data point**), sent by email or not exportable at all.
```

> See next section for all differences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Differences between export modes {#differences-between-export-modes}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

See below for the details of each export mode available to you. 
```

- **Compact**:
  - Processes up to 5,000 records per data point, or up to the data retention limit
  - Creates a single merged file containing all the data
  - Provides minimum and maximum values
  - Preview is not available
  - Supports optional data aggregation
- **Full**:
  - Processes up to 1,000,000 records per data point, or up to the data retention limit
  - For exports exceeding 50,000 records, data will be sent via email
  - Creates a compressed ZIP file containing separate data files for each selected data point
  - Preview is available
  - Does not support data aggregation

### Handling data points with over one million records {#data-points-with-over-one-million-records-to-process}

When using **Full** export mode, if you select a single **Data point** that contains more than one million records (our processing limit), the download option will be disabled. To proceed with the export, you'll need to reduce the number of records by narrowing the time range. In this situation, until then, you'll see the following message:

> <br>![Export exceeded one million records](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-exports-one-million-for-single-data-point.png)<br>

Reviewer: I would just put here warning text, and not screenshot

Author: I would like to be consistent with next one.

Author: @MWindel what do you think?

Reviewer 2: @luja-c8y @DawidSAG In general we try to avoid screenshots with only messages, as they need to be maintained if even only one word changes. On the other hand it is also not a good idea to quote the content of the warning message for the same reasons. I would therefore propose to do an inbetweeen:

"To proceed with the export, you'll need to reduce the number of records by narrowing the time range. Until the number is reduced, you will see a warning message."

Author: Done.

> When selecting multiple **Data points** for export in **Full** mode, if any individual **Data point** exceeds the one million record limit:

Reviewer: Maybe emphasize that the mentioned limit is per datapoint?

Author: ```
When selecting multiple Data points for export in Full mode, if any individual Data point exceeds the one million record limit per Data point
```

- The **Data points** exceeding the limit will be **excluded** from the export.
- All other **Data points** within the limit remain exportable.
- To include the excluded **Data points**, you need to narrow the time range.

In this case, you will see a more detailed informational message explaining how many **Data points** are affected and why:

> <br>![Export exceeded one million records](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-exports-one-million-for-single-data-point-with-other-data-points.png)<br>

Reviewer: Same here, just text?

Author: This one is dynamic, so how should I handle this:
```html
After clicking "Download":<br>
        <ul>
          <li><strong>{{$browserDownloadableCount}}</strong> datapoint(s) exports will be downloaded directly within one file: <em>exported_[csv/excel].zip</em></li>
          <li><strong>{{$emailDeliverableCount}}</strong> datapoint(s) exports require further processing. The files will be sent to you via separate emails once completed, which may take some time.</li>
          <li><strong>{{$nonRetrievableCount}}</strong> datapoint(s) exports exceeded 1,000,000 records, which is the limit for backend processing. To export these data, please reduce the date range. Otherwise, the data will neither be downloaded nor sent via email.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>The total number of data points that can be exported is: <strong>{{$totalExportableDatapointsCount}} out of {{$totalDatapointsSelectedForExportCount}}</strong>.
        <p><strong>Note:</strong> The file name convention of files within zip file is: <code>[source]_[fragment_series].[csv/xls]</code></p>
```

Author: @MWindel what do you think?

Reviewer 2: @luja-c8y @DawidSAG I agree that it would be better to list the options.

Author: @MWindel done: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/2476/commits/6b08be4ef029648ae9bacdf61c9d79bb700ecdbc#diff-301de69e0aeb1ab5eec2b31da3755240d62e50538f81c711c4a20fcda7ec25e2R66-R70
